Overview
Home
Department of Civil Engineering
Overview
Quick Menu
Overview
B Tech Curriculum with Minors
M Tech Specialisations and Curriculum
Academic Planning & Activities
Resources
Faculty
Students Development
Achievements
Overview: Department of Civil Engineering
The Department of Civil Engineering was the first inchoative discipline at Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli, and the oldest in the Southern Maharashtra region. Starting its journey in 1947, the department has contributed to producing several eminent engineers who are in key positions of the Government organisations, public sector and infrastructure companies, and have brought in significant contributions in the planning and execution of Civil Engineering projects in various regions of India.
The Department offers a four-year programme leading to the Bachelor’s Degree in Civil Engineering (B. Tech.) and a two-year programme leading to a Master’s degree (M. Tech.) in Civil Engineering with specialisation in Environmental Engineering and Construction Management.
The Department is known for its reputed faculty, having expertise in diverse fields. The faculty of the department continues to strive loftier by exploring new frontiers of civil engineering, imparting the latest technical knowledge to the students, and conducting high-quality research. The faculty has contributed more than a hundred research papers in various Journals and Conferences. The faculty also renders technical advice on live engineering problems in the field of Geotechnical, Structural, Environmental, Hydraulics, Transportation and Water Resources   Engineering, etc., to various Government and Private Sector companies throughout the state. It has built up a wide research potential in Structural and Environmental Engineering. The department also has other well-equipped engineering laboratories in the field of concrete and material testing, Geotechnical, Hydraulics, Transportation, Surveying, and Construction. Apart from the Central computing facility, the department has its own computing facility with more than 60 nodes and continuous internet access. The research projects of the department are funded by various agencies such as the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Fund for Improvement of S&T infrastructure (FIST), MODROB, TEQIP, etc.
The department has a rich legacy of accomplishments, including:
The department has a rich legacy of accomplishments, including:
Consistent top rankings in national and international competitive exams like GATE, MPSC, IES, IAS.
Alumni excelling as technology leaders, innovators, and researchers across the globe.
Along with the academics and Teaching-Learning process, the department has a strong Mentor-Mentee System by virtue of which students and faculty will interact to ensure a wholesome development of students as an Engineer and a responsible citizen.
Objectives
The Department of Civil Engineering aims to achieve the following objectives:
To achieve a high level of technical expertise to understand, identify, formulate, design, and implement a real-life Civil Engineering problem.
To inculcate leadership and ethical qualities in implementing the projects.
To produce technically competent and ethically sound engineering graduates.
To satisfy the requirements of society through active participation in infrastructural development.
To prepare the students for competitive examinations, research, and higher education.
To induce qualities of lifelong learning, working in teams with effective communication skills and interaction with society.
Vision
To be a Civil Engineering programme of the first choice by the aspiring students and prospective employers by implementing world-class education practices.
Mission
To meet the Vision, all stakeholders of this programme are committed to Outcome-Based Education Philosophy by
Adopting vibrant academic curricula and implementing innovative teaching-learning processes.
Providing opportunities to the students for the development of professional skills.
Nurturing critical thinking and creativity in students.
Inculcating in students a life-long learning attitude and sensitivity towards society & environment.
Strength
The Department of Civil Engineering stands out for its key strengths, which include:
Experienced and Dedicated Faculty
Robust Curriculum in line with NEP2020
Well-equipped and State-of-Art Infrastructure
Well-equipped laboratories
Strong Industry Connections
High Placement Record
Holistic Development Opportunities
Global Alumni Network
Research Projects on live problems
Continuous Improvement
These strengths collectively position the department as a key stakeholder in civil engineering education, research and innovation.
Areas of Expertise
The Department of Civil Engineering excels in the following areas of expertise:
Building Construction Technology and Materials
Construction Management
Environmental Engineering
Geology & Geotechnical Engineering
Hydraulics
Remote Sensing and GIS
Soil Mechanics
Structures
Surveying
Transportation Engineering
Water Resources
These areas of expertise enable the department to provide students with advanced knowledge and practical skills, preparing them for leadership roles in the ever-evolving technology landscape.
Salient Department Features
The Department of Civil Engineering at Walchand College of Engineering stands out for its unique features and strengths, including:
Academic Excellence:
NEP-2020 aligned curriculum focusing on foundational and advanced topics, along with the practical, industrial requirements.
Highly qualified faculty with expertise in salient areas of civil engineering and related upgrading technologies. Nearly 80% of faculty members have a Ph.D. and Ph. D. registered.
State-of-the-Art Infrastructure:
Modern technology incorporates high-end performance labs with high-performance systems and equipment.
Access to advanced tools, software, and a dedicated Departmental Computing facility.
Research and Innovation:
Active research in emerging fields like building materials, sustainable development, and real-time environmental problems.
Regular attendance and publications in reputed journals and conference participations with Scopus and SCI indexing.
Strong Industry Interface:
Collaborations, MoUs with leading Construction and Civil Engineering related companies in the Public and Private sector for internships, placements, and projects.
Expert guest lectures, workshops, and certification trainings.
Skill Development Opportunities:
Emphasis on hands-on learning through in-house training, seminars, and projects.
Active technical clubs, local chapters of reputed associations, and student organisations fostering innovation.
Global Competence:
Alumni are placed in top organisations and are pursuing higher education globally.
Exposure to international competitions and exchange programs.
Student-Centric Environment:
Strong mentor-mentee system by faculty for academic and professional growth.
Focus on holistic development through extracurricular and co-curricular activities.
Placement Excellence:
High placement rates with opportunities in top companies in the public and private sectors.
Dedicated training for technical interviews, on-field experiences, and soft skills.
Continuous Improvement:
Regular updates to the curriculum and teaching methodologies.
Feedback-driven enhancements for a superior learning experience.
These features collectively position the department as a leader in producing highly skilled, innovative, and socially responsible engineers.
Leadership
Dr. Amol K. Mali
(Head of the Department of Civil Engineering)
Dr. Amol K. Mali is the Head of the Department of Civil Engineering at Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli. He joined the institution in 2009, and since then, he has made a significant contribution to the Civil Engineering Department and Walchand College of Engineering as a whole through his expertise, research, and education. Dr. Mali holds a Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from IIT, Bombay, Mumbai. He has earned his M. Tech. and B.E. degrees in Civil Engineering from IIT, Roorkee, and KIT’s College of Engineering, Kolhapur, respectively.
Prior to academic experience, he has a great experience of working in reputed construction sector companies in Bridge Design and Concrete Quality Control.
His research interests include Construction Management, Concrete Technology, and Transportation Engineering. Dr. Mali has published numerous papers in national and international journals and conferences. He has also been involved in several sponsored projects. He has served in various responsibilities and capacities at the department and institute levels during his tenure.
With his long industrial and academic experience, along with visionary leadership skills,
Dr. Amol Mali is leading the Department of Civil Engineering at Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli
Share this page,
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Linkedin
Instagram