First Year of BTech
Home
Admissions
First Year of BTech
Quick Menu
First Year of BTech
First Year of BTech – PIO/OCI/FN/ CIWGC/NRI Students
Direct Second Year B.Tech
BTech – DSE (Working Professionals)
First Year BTech
Important Instructions to students
Seat allotted through CET Cell for CAP 1,2,3,4 (AY2026-27)
View
Regular Admissions for Indian Students
Walchand College of Engineering admits students to its undergraduate B. Tech programs at in First Year Four Year Course through the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) conducted by the State Common Entrance Test Cell, Maharashtra.
Aided and Unaided Programs
Walchand College of Engineering offers both aided and unaided B. Tech Programs. Aided courses are basically financed by Government of Maharashtra. Since institute is partially aided institute (90% of salary of aided courses), teacher and staff salary to large extent is supported from government aid (fund), For unaided courses, salary component of staff and faculty, as well other expenses are primarily dependent on student fees.
From the students’ perspective, there is no difference between aided and unaided courses in terms of syllabus, teaching-learning processes, exam patterns, infrastructure, state-of-the-art laboratory facilities, access to government student related schemes, placement opportunities etc.
Base for Admission tests
Aided Courses –  Admissions to aided courses are based solely on the CET examination.
Unaided Courses –  Admissions to unaided courses are through the CAP process, with 15% seats reserved for candidates who have qualified for JEE (Main) and the remaining 85% seats filled through CET.
For CET: Please refer this
https://cetcell.mahacet.org/
For JEE: Please refer this (
https://jeemain.nta.nic.in/
Intake & Courses
Programs
Code for Admission Process
Intake for Indian Students
Intake for Aided
Intake for unaided
Civil Engineering
600719110
Electrical Engineering
600729310
Mechanical Engineering
600761210
Computer Science and Engineering
600724210
Information Technology
600724610
Electronics Engineering
600737610
Computer Science and Engineering
0600724270U
Information Technology
0600724670U
Robotics and Automation
0600721970U
Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning
0600792170U
Eligibility Criteria for HSC/ XIIth in addition to test as above -
To be eligible for admission to Walchand College of Engineering, candidates must satisfy the following conditions:
Passed the HSC (Std. XII) examination of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education or its equivalent examination with subjects English, Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics.
Obtained a minimum of 50% marks (45% for backward class candidates from Maharashtra) in the subjects Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics added together.
For Domicile and other conditions , one should refer CAP cell guidelines.
Centralised Admission Process (CAP)
The Centralised Admission  Process (CAP) is conducted by the State Common Entrance Test Cell, Maharashtra. The admission process involves the following steps:
Registration_: Candidates must register online for CAP on the official website.
Document Verification_: Candidates must verify their documents at designated Facilitation Centres (FCs).
Option Form Filling_: Candidates must fill in their preferred college and course options in multiple rounds ( CAP1, CAP2, CAP3 etc)
Seat Allocation_: Seats are allocated to candidates based on their merit and preferences.
Reporting to College_: Candidates must report to the allocated college to confirm their admission once student confirms allotment through CAP
Fees
Fees for aided courses are as decided by State Government competent authority (DTE)
Fees for unaided courses are as decided by Fees Regulatory Authority of state of Maharashtra.
Scholarships
The various scholarship schemes are applicable to students getting admitted in the college. SC/ST/NT student gets full wavier of fees while OBC /EBC /SBC /SEBC  students gets 50% wavier in fees.
The detailed chart of Fees and Scholarship benefit is as below
FY BTech  (Aided)……
click here
FY BTech ( Unaided ) ……
click here
Institute level Admissions at FY level
For aided courses , there are no institute level seats
For unaided courses , institute level seats are surrendered to CAP hence no institute level seats/ management quota
5 seats are nominated by Walchand Hirachand Memorial Trust and 2 seats are nominated by D D Daruwala Trust , as per agreement between them with State in 1955 and directions of State accordingly
Vacancies against CAP
Institute advertises for admission against CAP vacancies and invites applications and fills all seats as per directions of CET cell inter se merit in respective category of seats
Detailed notification can be seen here………. click below link (
https://cetcell.mahacet.org/
Tuition Fee Waiver Scheme (TFWS)Seats
There shall be supernumerary ( in addition to above intake capacity up to maximum 5 percent of sanctioned intake) seats under Tuition Fee Wavier scheme  as per directions of AICTE/ GoI/ GoM. These seats are part of CAP process and state CET Cell/DTE will notify these in accordance with regulations during admission process
Eligibility
(i) Only Maharashtra State Candidature candidates are eligible for these seats
(ii) Eligible Maharashtra State Candidates having their parent’s annual income less than Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupees Eight Lakh only) from all sources shall only be eligible for these seats. The candidate shall submit Income certificate issued by Appropriate Authority.
(iii) These seats are allotted by the Competent Authority as per inter-se merit. For this purpose, the Competent Authority shall invite applications, prepare a separate merit list for this category by following the same criteria as for Maharashtra State Candidature Candidates. In the event of non-availability of students in this category the same shall not be given to any other category of applicants.
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Seats
(i) As per the provisions in Government Resolution No.
राआधो
-4019/
प्र.क
.31/16-
, dated 12th February, 2019 and
सामान्य
प्रशासन
विभाग
शासन
निर्णय
क्र
राआधो
/4019/
प्र.क
.31/16-
, dated 31.05.2021, 10% seats shall be reserved for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) candidates. These seats shall be filled by the Competent Authority through CAP as per the policies of the Government declared from time to time. These 10% seats shall be over & above the sanctioned intake for the respective course.
(ii) EWS category candidates, the scheme/mode of concessions, scheme of loan scholarship (if any) for eligible candidates, in tuition and other fees will be announced by the Central/ State Government. These candidates will get only that amount of waiver as notified in the circulars issued by the Government Department from time to time, subject to fulfilment of norms and conditions laid down by these Departments. Candidates claiming fee concession under these categories shall produce the requisite certificates as may be specified by the respective Government Departments.
(iii) All the candidates (Open, Reserved, Male, Female) belonging to various categories shall be considered for allotment of seats as per their Inter-Se-Merit.
(iv) EWS candidates shall be considered for allotment of seats reserved for them as per their Inter-Se-Merit, and if seat is not available in their reserved category, then they shall be considered for allotment in General Category as per the Inter-Se-Merit.
Note for
BTech (UG- FY NEUT and PMSSS)
There are certain seats allocated by Government of Maharashtra for J&K students and North eastern states .Details may be referred here…..link
Jammu and Kashmir Candidates and North East States:
(i) The admission to the candidates as per Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme (PMSSS) for the students belonging to Jammu and Kashmir and the scheme of Government of India of allocation of supernumerary seats in AICTE approved colleges to North Eastern States and UTs (NEUT) which lack in such facilities of technical education shall be done by the competent authority appointed by the Central Government as per their eligibility criteria.
(ii) The fee for the students belonging to Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Union Territory of Ladakh admitted under the Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme (PMSSS) to the Private Unaided Institutes shall be the minimum of the fee prescribed by the Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) for that institute and the maximum fee ceiling amount prescribed by All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE).
(iii)The fee for the students admitted under the scheme of Government of India of allocation of supernumerary seats in AICTE approved colleges to North Eastern States and UTs (NEUT) which lack in facilities of technical education shall be same as that for the Non Autonomous Government Institutes.
Share this page,
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Linkedin
Instagram

--- Linked PDF content ---

Read Following Instructions Carefully   खालील सूचना काळजीपूर्वक र्ाचा 
Instructions for Students those have seats allotted through CET Cell (CAP-1,2,3,4) at  
Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli.  
This link is ONLY for First Y ear Degree, B.Des., MBA, First Y ear MTech (Regular & Working 
Professional), First Y ear UG-PG (Integrated) and Direct Second Y ear students for AY 2026-27 
Dear Students 
Congratulations and Welcome for New Admission to Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli 
Before coming to college for admission, please click on following link to fill your personal details. 
https://admission.walchandsangli.ac.in/Login.aspx 
(1) Click on Sign Up (To fill-up this form around 20 minutes are required) 
(2) Choose your “Academic Level” carefully. Then select your appropriate “Programme” 
(3) For form fill-up it is recommended to use Computer or Laptop 
(4) During form fill-up if you lose internet connectivity then again go to same link and Sign In (not Sign 
Up) with your email address and use Password as P 
(5) Ready with scanned  copy of (a) your passport size  Photograph (b) Your Signature 
in  JPG,JPEG,BMP,PNG formats limited to 50kb size only  
and  
(c) Aadhar Card both side  (d) Leaving Certificate ( e) SSC Marksheet/ Certificate ( f) HSC Marksheet/ 
Certificate (g) CET score card (h) Caste Certificate (if applicable) (i) Caste V alidity (if applicable) (j) Non 
creamy Layer Certificate (if applicable) in PDF, DOC, DOCX, JPG, JPEG, BMP, PNG formats limited 
to 1MB size only. 
Important Note: Y our admission is ONLY confirmed after  
(1) physical document verification,  
(2) Fees paid through online mode at college and  
(3) Getting Confirmation Printout signed by college authority from CET portal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
र्ालचंद अभियांभिकी महाभर्द्यालय, सांगली येथे सीईटी सेल (CAP-1,2,3,4) द्वारे जागा र्ाटप के ले ल् या 
आणि त्याद्वारे प्रवेश णिळालेल्याभर्द्यार्थ्ाांसाठी सूचना. 
ही भल ं क फक्त AY 2026-27 साठी प्रथम र्र्व पदर्ी, बी . णिझाईन, एिबीए, प्रथम र्र्व एमटेक (रेग्यूलर 
आणि वणक िं ग प्रोफ े शनल), प्रथम र्र्व यूजी-पीजी (इंटीग्रेटेि) आभि थेट भद्वतीय र्र्ावच्या भर्द्यार्थ्ाांसाठी आहे. 
विद्यार्थी वित्ाांनो, 
वालचंद अभियांभिकी महाभवद्यालय, सांगली येथे निीन प्रिेश विळाल्याबद्दल आपल े अविनांदन आवि स्वागत 
प्रत्यक्ष प्रवेशासाठी महाभवद्यालयात येण्यापूवी, क ृ पया आपल े वैयक्तिक तपशील िरण्यासाठी खालील भल ं कवर क्तिक 
करा.  
https://admission.walchandsangli.ac.in/Login.aspx 
(२) Sign Up वर क्तिक करा (हा फॉमम िरण्यासाठी सुमारे 20 भमभिटे लागतात) 
(३) तुिची 'शैक्षविक पातळी' (Academic Level) काळजीपूिवक वनिडा. त्यानांतर तुिचा योग्य ' ब्रँच' (Programme) 
वनिडा. 
(३) फॉमम िरण्यासाठी संगणक भक ं वा ल ॅ पटॉप िापरािेत. 
(४) फॉमम िरतािा तुम्ही इंटरिेट किेक्तिक्तिटी गमावल ् यास, पुन्हा त्याच भल ं कवर जा आभण तुमच्या ईमेल आयडीिे 
साइि इि करा (साइि अप करू नये) आभण P म्हणूि पासवर्म वापरा. 
(५) फि JPG, JPEG, BMP, PNG फॉरमॅटमध्ये (a) तुमच्या छायाभचिाची आभण (b) तुमच्या स्वाक्षरीची पासपोटम 
आकाराची स्क ॅ ि प्रत अपलोड करण्यासाठी तयार ठ े िा. (साईझ ियावदा ५० क े बी च्या आतील) 
आवि 
फि PDF, DOC, DOCX, JPG, JPEG, BMP, PNG फॉरमॅटमध्ये (c) आधार काडव च्या दोन्ही बाजू (d) वलविांग 
सवटवविक े ट (e) SSC िाक व शीट / सवटवविक े ट (f) HSC िाक व शीट/ सवटवविक े ट (g) CET स्कोर काडव (h) कास्ट 
सवटवविक े ट (लागू असल्यास) (i) कास्ट व्हॅवलवडटी (लागू असल्यास) (j) नॉन वििी लेअर सवटवविक े ट (लागू असल्यास) 
ह्ाांची स्क ॅ ि प्रत अपलोड करण्यासाठी तयार ठ े िा. (साईझ ियावदा प्रत्येकी १ एिबी च्या आतील) 
(६) महत्त्वाची सूचना:  
(i) सिव कागदपत्े - दस्तऐवज याांची प्रत्यक्ष पर्ताळणी,  
(ii) कॉल े जमध्ये ऑिलाइि पद्धतीिे िरल े ल े शुल ् क आभण  
(iii) CET पोटमलवरूि कॉलेज अवधकायाच्या सहीची कन्फमेशि भप्रंटआउट भमळवल ् यािंतरच तुमचा प्रवेश भिक्तचचत 
क े ला आहे असे सिजािे. 
 
 
 
 
Screen 1 
 
Click on Sign Up 
Screen 2 
 
Fill information and Click on Create 
 
 
 
 
 

Screen 3 
 
Your account is created. Now Click on Yes. Remember your User ID and Password as P 
Screen 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Screen 5 
 
Screen 6 
 
Screen 7 
 
Click on Skip 
 

Screen 8 
 
Upload your photo and signature 
 
Screen 9 
 
Screen 10 
 

Screen 11 
 
Screen 12 
This is ONLY for MTech and DSE Working Professional Category,  
For others Untick ‘Applicable’ (in blue colour) at left upper corner 
 
Screen 13 
 
Upload your documents 

Screen 14 
 
Click on Submit for Approval 
Screen 15 
 
Click on Show Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Screen 16 
 
Take a Printout (black & white) and come to college for physical Document V erification and payment of 
fees 
िरील ररपोटवची भप्रंटआउट (ब्लॅक & व्हाईट) घेऊन  प्रत्यक्ष कागदपि पर्ताळणी आभण फी िरण्यासाठी 
महाभवद्यालयात  येिे. 
 
Important Note: Y our admission is ONLY confirmed after (1) physical document verification, (2) Fees 
paid through online mode  at college and (3) Getting Confirmation Printout  signed by college authority  
from CET portal. 
महत्त्वाची सूचना: 
(१) सिव कागदपत्े - दस्तऐवज याांची प्रत्यक्ष पर्ताळणी,  
(२) कॉल े जमध्ये ऑिलाइि पद्धतीिे िरल े ल े शुल ् क आभण  
(३) CET पोटमलवरूि कॉलेज अवधकायाच्या सहीची कन्फमेशि भप्रंटआउट भमळवल ् यािंतरच तुमचा प्रवेश भिक्तचचत 
क े ला आहे असे सिजािे. 
 
 

Preparation of candidate on the day of institute reporting: 
(1) Printout  (black & white)  of College self-registration form ERP (Refer at college website: CAP 
Reporting New Admission for 2026-27) https://admission.walchandsangli.ac.in/Login.aspx 
(2) Receipt-cum-acknowledgement received from Scrutiny Centre (2 Nos. printouts)  
(3) Seat acceptance letter after payment of seat acceptance fee generated from candidate login  through 
CET Cell portal (1 Nos. printout)  
(4) All required original documents as uploaded to CET portal 
(5) For payment of Fees: Refer fee structure at college website for your appropriate fees 
(ONLINE mode only or DD in the favor of “Director, Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli” payable 
at Sangli.): 
(6) Applicable candidates should have income certificate issued by Tahsildar for the financial year 2025-
26 and showing income less than 8 lakh. If parent income for the financial year 2025-26 is greater than 8 
lakh or NOT having income certificate need to pay OPEN category fees 
Steps to be followed for admission: 
Visit to Tilak Hall, WCE, Sangli with ERP printout 
 
Enter your name and sign in attendance Register and collect Token 
 
Arrangement of required documents as per facilitation acknowledgment for Institute reporting 
1. Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 2. Document listed in Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 3. Payment of 
seat acceptance fee 4. Income certificate for Fee concession 5. Leaving Certificate 6. ERP printout 
 
Institute Scrutiny Section (V erification of DA TA on acknowledgement with Original documents)  
1. Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 2. Payment of seat acceptance fee 3. V erification of all documents 
with data present in receipt-cum-acknowledgement 
 
Visit to Next Table for ERP confirmation 
1. Institute ERP section will verify all data filled by student in ERP 2. Confirmation of ERP data and 
Original documents will be collected 3. Fee payment by Online mode 4. Fee receipt generation 
 
Confirmation of your admission by showing Token 
1. Confirm your admission by telling OTP (on CET Registered  mobile) generated by CET Cell  2. 
Collection of stamped & Signed admission letter from admission authority (admission letter generated 
from CET Cell Maharashtra portal) 
 
Sign second time against your name in attendance note book. Scan QR code to join WhatsApp Group 
and wait for next academic instructions. Now admission process completed 
 
सांस्र्थेत प्रिेशाच्या वदिशी विद्यार्थ्ाांनी येताना कराियाची तयारी: 
(१) कॉल े ज विद्यार्थी स्वयांिोंदणी फॉमम ईआरपीची (ERP) भप्रंटआउट (black & white)  (कॉल े जच्या वेबसाइटवर पहा: 
CAP Reporting New Admission for 2026-27) https://admission.walchandsangli.ac.in/Login.aspx 
(2) छाििी क ें द्राकर् ू ि प्राप्त पोचपावती (2 भप्रंटआउट)  
(३) सीईटी सेल पोटमलद्वारे उमेदवाराच्या लॉभगिमधूि तयार क े ल े ल े (शुल ् क िरल ् यािंतर) आसि स्वीक ृ ती पि (1 
भप्रंटआउट)  
(4) सीईटी पोटमलवर अपलोर् क े ल ् याप्रमाणे सवम आवचयक मूळ कागदपिे आवि वलव्व्हांग सवटवविक े ट 
(५) फी िरण्यासाठी: तुमच्या योग्य फीसाठी कॉल े जच्या वेबसाइटवर फी स्ट् र क्चर पहा 
(क े वळ ऑनलाइन मोड भक ं वा सांगली येथे देय “Director, Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli ” यांच्या 
िावे योग्य रकिेचा र्ीर्ी) 
(6) लागू असिाऱ्या, अजमदार विद्यार्थ्ाांकर्े 2025-26 या आभथमक वर्ामसाठी तहसीलदारािे जारी क े ल े ल े उत्पन्न 
प्रमाणपि असावे आभण उत्पन्न 8 लाखांपेक्षा कमी असावे. 2025-26 या आभथमक वर्ामसाठी पालकांचे उत्पन्न 8 लाखांपेक्षा 
जास्त असल ् यास भक ं वा उत्पन्नाचे प्रमाणपि िसल ् यास ओपि श्रेणी शुल ् क िरावे लागेल. 
प्रर्ेशासाठी खालील टप्पे आहेत: 
भटळक हॉल, WCE, सांगली येथे ERP भप्रंटआउटसह येिे 
 
आपल े िाव नोांद करा आभण नोांद िहीमध्ये आपली सही करा आभण टोकि घेिे 
 
इव्िटयूट ररपोटींग साठी सिव कागदपत्े ििाने एकत् जोडा 
1. Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 2. Document listed in Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 3. Payment 
of seat acceptance fee 4. Income certificate for Fee concession 5. Leaving Certificate 6. ERP printout 
 
संस्था छाििी भविाग िूळ कागदपत्ाांची अपलोड क े लेल्या कागदपत्ाांची पडताळिी करेल 
1. Receipt-cum-acknowledgement 2. Payment of seat acceptance fee 3. Verification of all documents with data 
present in receipt-cum-acknowledgement 
 
ERP डेटा वनविती ि कन्फिेशन 
1. इक्तिट्यूट ERP भविाग भवद्यार्थ्ामिे ERP मध्ये िरल े ल ् या सवम िावहतीची पर्ताळणी करेल 2. ERP िावहती आभण मूळ 
कागदपिांची खात्ी करेल 3. ऑिलाइि मोर्द्वारे शुल ् क िरणे 4. िीची पािती बनली जाते 
 
टोकि दाखवूि तुमच्या प्रवेशाची वनविती 
1. CET सेलद्वारे प्राप्त झालेला OTP (CET Registered िोबाईल) सांगूि तुमच्या प्रवेशाची वनविती करा 2. प्रवेश प्राभधकरणाकर् ू ि 
मुद्रांभकत आभण स्वाक्षरी क े ल े ल ् या प्रवेश पिाचे संकलि (CET Cell महाराष्ट्र  पोटमलवरूि तयार के ले ले  प्रवेश पि ताब्यात घ्या) 
 
हजेरी वहीत तुमच्या नािासिोर दुसऱयांदा सही करा. व्हाट्स ऍप ग्रुप साठीचा QR कोड स्क ॅ न करून ग्रुप ला जॉईन करा ि पुढील 
शैक्षविक िावहतीची प्रतीक्षा करा.आता आपली प्रवेश प्रभिया पूणम झाली आहे 
 