B Tech Curriculum with Minors
Home
Department of Computer Engineering
B Tech Curriculum with Minors
Quick Menu
Overview
B Tech Curriculum with Minors
M Tech Specialisations and Curriculum
Academic Planning & Activities
Resources
Faculty
Students Development
Achievements
B.Tech Curriculum with Minors
Vision
To produce capable computer science & engineering graduates with an aptitude for research and leadership.
Mission
To promote excellence in CSE education through relevant academic curricula and innovative teaching learning processes.
To offer different opportunities to the students for development of professional skills.
To nurture critical thinking and creativity in the students.
To inculcate in the student’s life-long learning attitude and sensitivity towards society & environment.
Curriculum
The B.Tech curriculum in computer engineering is designed to provide students with a comprehensive education in computer science and engineering. In the Academic Year 2024-2025 curriculum of First year and Second Year is implemented as per NEP 2020 policy which includes multidisciplinary minor (MDM) as well. CSE department has offered MDM in Computer Science and Engineering and FinTech (each of mandatory 14 credits).
Minors
The department offers minors in the emerging area like Blockchain and Security.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Graduates of UG Programme after completing their graduation in Computer Science and Engineering will be able to
PEO1
Demonstrate technical competency by applying knowledge to solve problems related to engineering issues.
PEO2
Exhibit skills and right attitude to succeed in their professional Career.
PEO3
Display thirst for emerging technologies and quest for innovation with concern to society and environment.
Program Outcomes (POs)
PO1
Engineering Knowledge
: Apply knowledge of mathematics, natural science, computing, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization as specified in WK1 to WK4 respectively to develop to the solution of complex engineering problems.
PO2
Problem Analysis
: Identify, formulate, review research literature and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions with consideration for sustainable development. (WK1 to WK4)
PO3
Design/Development of Solutions
: Design creative solutions for complex engineering problems and design/develop systems/components/processes to meet identified needs with consideration for the public health and safety, whole-life cost, net zero carbon, culture, society and environment as required. (WK5)
PO4
Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems
: Conduct investigations of complex engineering problems using research-based knowledge including design of experiments, modeling, analysis & interpretation of data to provide valid conclusions. (WK8)
PO5
Engineering Tool Usage
: Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering & IT tools, including prediction and modeling recognizing their limitations to solve complex engineering problems. (WK2 and WK6)
PO6
The Engineer and The World
: Analyze and evaluate societal and environmental aspects while solving complex engineering problems for its impact on sustainability with reference to economy, health, safety, legal framework, culture and environment. (WK1, WK5, and WK7)
PO7
Ethics
: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, human values, diversity and inclusion; adhere to national & international laws. (WK9)
PO8
Individual and Collaborative Team work
: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse/multi-disciplinary teams.
PO9
Communication
: Communicate effectively and inclusively within the engineering community and society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations considering cultural, language, and learning differences.
PO10
Project Management and Finance
: Apply knowledge and understanding of engineering management principles and economic decision-making and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, and to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
PO11
Life-Long Learning
: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability for i) Independent and life-long learning ii) adaptability to new and emerging technologies and iii) critical thinking in the broadest context of technological change. (WK8)
Program Specific Outcomes:
PSO1
Apply knowledge of Databases, Networking, Security, Software Engineering, AI and allied domains to design, implement and validate efficient solutions for real world problems.
PSO2
Apply cutting edge technologies to excel in professional career, entrepreneurship, research and higher studies in Computer Science & Engineering Domain.
Academic Structure
Following table shows the WCE-CSE Framework aligned with NEP 2020 Policy for 2023-2027 Batch of B.Tech in CSE.
Below are the key highlights of the curriculum
Strong emphasis on
flexibility
interdisciplinary exposure
, and
hands-on learning
Balanced distribution across core, elective, and social/human values
Internship and Research Projects
integrated for real-world preparedness
Internship credits are distributed from the 2
year to the final year.
Along with 160 credits, a student has to earn a mandatory 14 credits of a Multidisciplinary Minor (MDM) of their choice allocated to them.
Over and above 174 credits, a student may choose a second minor or honours of their choice, each of 18 credits. This scheme is mostly for fast learners.
The semester-wise detailed curriculum structure is available at the following links:
FY CSE:
Sem I and II Credit System
SY CSE:
Sem III and IV Credit System
TY CSE:
Sem V and VI Credit System
Final Year CSE:
Sem VII and VIII Credit System
The detailed syllabus is available at:
FY:
FY CSE Syllabus
SY:
SY CSE Syllabus
TY:
TY CSE Syllabus
B.Tech:
Final Year CSE Syllabus
Batchwise Credit System and Course Contents
Credit_Sytem 18 to 22
Couse_Contents_18 to 22
Credit_System 19 to 23
Course_Contents 19 to 23
Credit_System 20 to 24
Course_Contents 20 to 24
Credit_System 21 to 25
Course_Contents 21 to 25
Share this page,
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Linkedin
Instagram

--- Linked PDF content ---



