Academic Regulations
Home
Academics & Programmes
Academic Regulations
Quick Menu
Overview of Academic Philosophy
Calendars and Schedules
Credit System and Bank
Academic Regulations
Multi-Disciplinary Minors (CIRCLE)
Examination Notices and Schedule
IQAC
Learning Resources
Polytechnic Academics
Academic Regulations
Walchand College of Engineering (WCE) follows a comprehensive set of academic regulations designed to aid in the ecosystem to achieve learning goals.
Continuous assessment philosophy is implemented to allow stakeholders to assess the progress in learning.  The theory course is assessed through ISE (20 marks
), MSE(30 marks) and ESE (50Marks). A passing criterion is that a minimum of  40% marks be achieved overall and also in ESE. (Abbreviations – ISE – In Semester Examination , MSE – Mid Semester Examination , ESE – End  Semester Examination )
Marks are translated into alphabetic grades using the relative grading system which rationalizes variation in marks. Grades obtained in all courses in a semester are assimilated with due respect to respective credit weights to compute the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) on a scale of 0 to 10. As students progress through multiple semesters, the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is updated along with total number of credits earned to reflect both quantity and quality of learning achievements. For undergraduate students admitted in the academic year 2023-24 and beyond, 174 credits must be earned to obtain a Bachelor’s degree in an Engineering discipline with a Multi-Disciplinary Minor.
To be promoted to the next academic year learners must attain at least two-thirds of the credits designated for the completed academic year. This system emphasizes academic rigor and aims to ensure that students possess a strong foundation in their chosen field of study before advancing to higher levels of education.
Attendance is a crucial component of these regulations, with students required to maintain a minimum attendance of 75% in lectures of theory courses. In performance-based courses, attendance is one of the mandatory criteria to be eligible for examinations. In case of medical or personal emergencies, students must provide valid documentation to seek exemptions or relaxations, subject to the approval of the authorities. If a student defaults in three or more courses in a semester, a detention is thrust upon him/her. The institute discourages malpractices in the examination through various inbuilt preventive measures. However, in case of such an event, an empowered committee cancels the student’s performance in that course or detains student for whole semester too.
To explore further details on various academic and examination Rules and Regulations visit the following  link.
Academics R & R
Share this page,
Search
Search
Follow Us
Facebook
Linkedin
Instagram

--- Linked PDF content ---
















































